(Cosci and Mansueto, 2019)
Phase 1,social phobia or generalized anxiety disorder
Phase 2, acute social phobia
Phase 3, Panic attacks, panic disorder with anxiety, and demoralizing depression
Phase 4, Chronic panic attacks. Panic disorder and social phobia leading to mental disorders. It can be
a sign of increased susceptibility to major depression

https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/panic-attacks/symptoms-causes/syc-20376021
A panic attack is a sudden episode of intense fear that triggers severe physical reactions when there is no real danger or
apparent cause. Panic attacks can be very frightening. When panic attacks occur, you might think you're losing control, having
a heart attack or even dying.
Many people have just one or two panic attacks in their lifetimes, and the problem goes away, perhaps when a stressful
situation ends. But if you've had recurrent, unexpected panic attacks and spent long periods in constant fear of another
attack, you may have a condition called panic disorder.
Although panic attacks themselves aren't life-threatening, they can be frightening and significantly affect your quality of
life. But treatment can be very effective.

Symptoms
Panic attacks typically begin suddenly, without warning. They can strike at any time. You may have occasional panic attacks, or
they may occur frequently.
Panic attacks typically include some of these signs or symptoms:
    Sense of impending doom or danger
    Fear of loss of control or death
    Rapid, pounding heart rate
    Sweating
    Trembling or shaking
    Shortness of breath or tightness in your throat
    Chills
    Hot flashes
    Nausea
    Abdominal cramping
    Chest pain
    Headache
    Dizziness, lightheadedness or faintness
    Numbness or tingling sensation
    Feeling of unreality or detachment

Causes
It's not known what causes panic attacks or panic disorder, but these factors may play a role:
    Genetics
    Major stress
    Temperament that is more sensitive to stress or prone to negative emotions
    Certain changes in the way parts of your brain function
Some research suggests that your body's natural fight-or-flight response to danger is involved in panic attacks. For example,
if a grizzly bear came after you, your body would react instinctively. Your heart rate and breathing would speed up as your
body prepared for a life-threatening situation. Many of the same reactions occur in a panic attack. But it's unknown why a
panic attack occurs when there's no obvious danger present.

Risk Factors
Factors that may increase the risk of developing panic attacks or panic disorder include:
    Family history of panic attacks or panic disorder
    Major life stress, such as the death or serious illness of a loved one
    A traumatic event, such as sexual assault or a serious accident
    Major changes in your life, such as a divorce or the addition of a baby
    Smoking or excessive caffeine intake
    History of childhood physical or sexual abuse

Complication
Complications that panic attacks may cause or be linked to include:

    Development of specific phobias, such as fear of driving or leaving your home
    Frequent medical care for health concerns and other medical conditions
    Avoidance of social situations
    Problems at work or school
    Depression, anxiety disorders and other psychiatric disorders
    Increased risk of suicide or suicidal thoughts
    Alcohol or other substance misuse
    Financial problems

For some people, panic disorder may include agoraphobia (avoiding places or situations that cause you anxiety because you fear
being unable to escape or get help if you have a panic attack). Or you may become reliant on others to be with you in order to
leave your home.

Prevention
There's no sure way to prevent panic attacks or panic disorder. However, these recommendations may help.
    Get treatment for panic attacks as soon as possible to help stop them from getting worse or becoming more frequent.
    Stick with your treatment plan to help prevent relapses or worsening of panic attack symptoms.
    Get regular physical activity, which may play a role in protecting against anxiety.



https://indopsycare.com/library/panic-disorder/
https://health.detik.com/berita-penyakit/d-6776706/serangan-panik








